# Getting Started with Kubernetes on Your Laptop

This might seem trivial right now on why I decided to write this as there are many tutorials and official documentation which are better. But I wanted to try Notion's AI capability and this is the result that it gave when I asked it to write a tutorial on Kubernetes. Pretty amazed by the accuracy and how concise it is. :)

Kubernetes is an open-source platform that automates container deployment, scaling, and management. It is an increasingly popular tool for managing containerized applications, and getting started with Kubernetes on your laptop is a great way to learn its basic concepts and features.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you have the following installed on your laptop:

- Docker
- Kubernetes CLI (kubectl)
- A Kubernetes cluster (e.g., minikube)

## Step 1: Start a Kubernetes Cluster

To start a Kubernetes cluster on your laptop, you can use a tool like minikube. Minikube is a lightweight Kubernetes implementation that creates a single-node cluster on your local machine.

To start a minikube cluster, run the following command in your terminal:

```
minikube start

```

This will start a single-node Kubernetes cluster on your laptop.

## Step 2: Deploy an Application

Once you have a Kubernetes cluster up and running, you can deploy your first application. In Kubernetes, applications are defined in YAML files called manifests. A manifest describes the desired state of your application, including the container image to use, how many replicas to run, and what services to expose.

Here's an example manifest for a simple "Hello, World!" application:

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: hello-world
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: hello-world
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: hello-world
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: hello-world
        image: docker.io/library/hello-world:latest
        ports:
        - containerPort: 8080
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: hello-world
spec:
  type: NodePort
  ports:
  - port: 80
    targetPort: 8080
  selector:
    app: hello-world

```

Save this manifest to a file (e.g., `hello-world.yaml`) and deploy it to your Kubernetes cluster by running the following command:

```
kubectl apply -f hello-world.yaml

```

This will create a new deployment and service for the "Hello, World!" application.

## Step 3: Verify Your Application is Running

To verify that your application is running, you can use the `kubectl get` command to list the pods and services in your Kubernetes cluster:

```
kubectl get pods
kubectl get services

```

This will show you the status of your application and its associated services.

## Conclusion

Congratulations! You've deployed your first application on a Kubernetes cluster running on your laptop. This is just the beginning of what you can do with Kubernetes, and there's a lot more to learn. But with these basic steps, you're well on your way to becoming a Kubernetes pro.
